= docxtor

Docxtor is a Ruby library for generating .docx files from html templates. The main idea behind it is using your existing html document and convert it to different format without change.

== Installation

    gem install docxtor

== Usage

From your code:

    docxtor = Docxtor::Generator.new <options>
    docxtor.from_html <template>, <path to generated file>

=== Available options

* +toc+

  Creates a table of contents for a document.

  Examples:

    Docxtor::Generator.new :toc => 'h1' # Use 'h1' tags as chapter headers
    Docxtor::Generator.new :toc => '#myheader' # Use elements with +id="myheader"+ as chapter headers
    Docxtor::Generator.new :toc => ['h1', 'h2'] # Use +h1+ and +h2+ elements as chapter headers of the same level
    Docxtor::Generator.new :toc => {'h1' => 'h2'} # Use +h1+ elements as level 1 headers and +h2+ elements as level 2 headers


* +pagenum+

  Inserts page numbers in generated document.

  Examples:

    Docxtor::Generator.new :pagenum => {:vertical => "top", :horizontal => "right"} # Insert page number in the upper right corner of the page
    Docxtor::Generator.new :pagenum => {:vertical => "bottom", :horizontal => "center", :nofirst => true} # Insert page number in the middle of the page at the bottom. Don't insert number on a first page

* +header+

  Defines header element for every page.

  Examples:

    Docxtor::Generator.new :header => "#myheader" # Contents of the element with +id="myheader"+ will appear in header of every page.

* +footer+

  Same as header, but for the page's footer.

  Examples:

    Docxtor::Generator.new :footer => "#myfooter"

== TODO list

- XML templates;
- Pictures in documents.

== Contributing to docxtor

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2013 jafrog. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

